[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: So the JSLint style
was driven by the need to automatically
detect errors.
I started by going on
comp.lint.javascript and
there was a constant stream of people
saying, hey, my program doesn't work.
Can someone tell me what's wrong.
So I'd take their code and
I throw it out in JSLint.
And sometimes it would say
there is a problem boom.
And sometimes it couldn't,
and then go okay so
what do I need to do to JSLint
in order to help it find it.
And in some cases I discovered that
there were things in the language that
if I allowed their use,
those things could mask other errors.
So, the comma operator for example.
You can write all sort of
clever stuff with that.
But, it's more likely to be,
or sometimes can be a bug and
you can't discover the bug if you assume
that comma is an okay thing to use.
So, okay we're not gonna do that
with the statement similar thing.
So I started removing things
from the language, which turned
out not to be necessary because there
were easier alternatives to all of them.
But simply by removing them from
the language made it easier to find
other defects.
So if a form could be
used to hide defects,
I consider that itself to be a defect.
It took me a long time to figure this out.
So I didn't write JSLint
with an intention of
imposing my ideas of style on the world.
It was a tool for me and
JSLint told me what good style was.
So the approach I took
was Language Subsetting.
That, yeah it's been said only a mad
man would use all of C++ because it's
such a grotesquely huge language.
It's also been said only a mad man would
use C++ but that's for another time.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: But so
every language designer makes mistakes.
So generally they'll start
with some good ideas and
inspiration from some other languages.
And maybe some insight that if
I combine that with that and
put them together I can do
some interesting things.
And they might come up with some new
ideas of their own and put them on there.
And all of this is done
with good intentions.
And if they do a good job,
they are going to have a new language and
it's going to have remarkable features and
its great.
But invariably they'll make a mistake.
They'll put some things together and go,
that turned out not to be a good idea.
But if the language becomes popular,
they can't take it back.
Cuz the problem with these bad
features isn't that they're useless.
It's that they're dangerous.
And clever people will always
find a use for it, for anything.
And once it gets out there,
once it gets used, you can't take it back.
So the errors in the language
design are locked there forever.
Now if you're lucky as a language
designer, no one will use your language.
In that case you continue to have
freedom to do whatever you want with it.
You can go yeah that was wrong and fix it.
But if it becomes popular, in the case
of JavaScript it's one of the world's
most popular programming languages now,
you're stuck.
You can't fix it.
But you can, as the user of the language.
You can look at each of those features and
decide which are beneficial for you and
which are more likely to
increase your error rate.
And make choices as to what subset
of language you want to use.
So you have a power that
the language designer does not have.
So the argument that if
it's in the language,
it's there for
you to use doesn't make sense.
That you have a higher responsibility,
a higher freedom than that.
You don't have to use that stuff.
I'd like to say a few
things about performance.
Performance sometimes works, or
concerns about performance sometimes
work directly against programming style.
Now performance specific code or
optimized code tends to be crafty.
Lot of the generality gets
removed from the code.
More special casing gets
hardcoded in to the code
which makes the code likely to be
more buggy and makes it less agile.
Makes it harder to modify that code
going forward or harder to reuse for
other purposes.
So you don't want to optimize
until you know you have to.
Clean code is much easier to reason about.
So if you are having performance problems,
it's much easier to resolve them from
clean code than from code that
has already been optimized.
Donald Knuth of Stanford said that
premature optimization is the root
of all evil.
And the sense is that is,
you should not begin optimizing
until you know specifically where
the optimizations need to occur.
Most of the code has a negligible
impact on performance.
So if you're optimizing
the negligible code,
you're corrupting your code,
which is going to increase errors and
increase the cost of maintenance
without actually providing any benefit.
You only want to optimize the code
that is taking up a lot of time, and
that will generally be the innermost
loops, if you're doing a lot of loopage.
Now also it turns out that fiddling
with innermost loops is probably
gonna be ineffective.
Cause if you have deeply layered
loops then you're probably gonna have
n squared or
maybe worst performance profiles.
Which means that code fiddling
is gonna be completely useless.
That the only way out is to
find better algorithms so
you can get out of n-squared well
maybe into analog n world or better.
So if you're dealing with very crufty code
those sorts of algorithm changes
are even more difficult to make.
So there's this prevailing idea that
every nanosecond you can squeeze out of
the program is going to be beneficial,
that is absolutely not true.
That you only want to squeeze stuff out
of the places that you know are slow.
And in the case of web applications,
it turns out that the majority
of the time is spent on the DOM.
The DOM API is this
horribly inefficient thing,
constantly marshaling,
doing layout, doing rendering.
That stuff is really expensive.
The amount of time spent running
JavaScript tends to be small
number of percentages.
So if you could somehow miraculously
reduce the cost of all your
JavaScript to zero, most users
will not observe any difference.
So fiddling with your JavaScript
is just a waste of time.
Now, when it is time to do
optimization of your programming, and
sometimes it is necessary.
You only want to be
doing the optimization,
in places where you gonna get the benefit.
Optimizing everywhere hoping for
a benefit, is a waste of time.
We only have limited resources for
you to do your optimizing.
So you need to optimize your optimizing.
All right, so there will be bugs,
I'm not promising that by having a better
style that there will be no bugs.
There will always be bugs, but what you
can do is shave the odds in your favor.
Anytime you can avoid being in the abyss,
is going to make you more productive.
So that's the end of part one.
That was like an hour and 20 minutes.
That was pretty good.
So let's take a 15-minute break.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, sounds good.
>> Douglas Crockford: Okay.
>> Speaker 3: And
we have fresh coffee back there.
>> Douglas Crockford: Before we break,
there is one question.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, so
I read a lot of JavaScript, which I like.
And, but one of the things I like to take
advantage of is truthy and falsey values,
which we're all acquainted with, I'm sure.
But now, watching your talk this morning,
I'm thinking,
well, yeah, that makes sense to me.
But to someone who may come in as a
maintainer later, they're gonna be unsure.
Is that what he intended?
What are your thoughts on-
>> Douglas Crockford: I think we have to
demand that everybody
level up on the language.
So you don't want to assume that
the people you're working with
are going to be under-educated.
So that's partly why we're here, right?
So we're going to spend most of
the day talking about functions.
And a lot of that stuff
is a new way of thinking.
But I highly recommend people get into
that kind of thinking because that's where
the expressive power is.
And we should do that even though other
people may not understand how that works.
Eventually we need to get everybody
to level up on the good parts.
And I think that the truthy,
the Boolish values is actually one
of the good parts of JavaScript.
That was a really good question.
>> Speaker 3: I like it a lot,
I guess I was more curious,
especially when you advocate for the use
of triple equals versus the double.
And I know there's type
coersion involved there, but
that's essentially what you're
getting with the truthy value.
Truthy falsy values as well
[INAUDIBLE] take into boolean sets.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah,
but it's different.
So, great.
So let's break and
we'll come back in 15 minutes.